May your dApp be #PoweredByPyth  Newsletter #40
What’s New in the Ecosystem?Pyth Low-Latency Pull Oracles Launches on SuiWe’re delighted to announce that Pyth’s low-latency pull oracles are now available on Sui, a Layer 1 blockchain designed to make digital asset ownership fast, private, secure, and accessible to everyone!We’re excited to support a plethora of Sui applications, including:ABEx, a revolutionary on-chain derivative protocol built on Sui. Thanks to Pyth’s low-latency oracles, ABEx will benefit from the freshest price available to fulfill users trade at no slippage.Aries Markets, a decentralized exchange built on Move aiming to aggregate and simplify the user experience across all of DeFi. Initially launched on Aptos, Aries will expand its #PoweredByPyth services to Sui.Aftermath, an all-in-one platform for trading, investing, and earning yield that is fast, inexpensive, and fully transparent. Aftermath’s Perpetuals, Money-Market module and Options platform will be #PoweredByPyth.Bucket Protocol, a protocol enabling users to take 0% interest loans and mint a native stablecoin on the Sui Network thanks to Pyth data.Fewcha, a native Move-based wallet and portfolio management protocol, is #PoweredByPyth to display the latest available to its users.Interest Protocol, a DeFi protocol that allows trading, farming, and borrowing. Pyth data allows the platform to value its supported assets.Kriya is building institutional-grade infra for on-chain trading, products include, a spot AMM with a native bridge and an orderbook-based perp and options DEX. Margin engine #PoweredByPythNavi Protocol, a decentralized liquidity protocol on Sui has decided to become #PoweredByPyth. Navi enables users to lend and borrow cryptocurrency assets without intermediaries, using a shared liquidity pool system.Turbos, a non-custodial DEX and perpetual trading platform. Accurate price quotation is supported by Pyth Price Feeds for seamless perpetual trading experience.Typus Finance, real yield infrastructure on Sui that combines swap, lending, and derivatives protocols to create an options marketplace for long-tail assets—all #PoweredByPyth.Scallop, a money market protocol on Sui that emphasizes institutional grade, high composability, and high security. Pyth data allows Scallop to value assets and user positions.You can also learn more about our partnership with Sui by checking out our Blog post.Pyth Low-Latency Pull Oracles Launches on InjectiveWe’re also excited to have launched on Injective, a lightning fast blockchain optimized for building financial applications. Helix, the leading Injective application and decentralized order book exchange for crypto spot and derivatives trading, is proudly #PoweredByPyth. Thanks to Pyth, Helix can easily and efficiently calculate the hourly funding rate of their derivatives markets."We are thrilled to be working with Pyth to bring novel asset data into the Injective universe. Now developers create markets with high fidelity on-chain data, bringing forth a new paradigm of cross-chain data composability,” said Injective Labs co-founder and CEO, Eric Chen.After a successful testnet integration and the release of the many yet to be seen markets on Cosmos like $SOL, $JPY or $XAU futures, Helix is now live on Injective mainnet and #PoweredByPyth!For more information about Pyth and Injective, check out our Blog post.#PoweredByPyth ApplicationsEveryday, new applications become #PoweredByPyth and existing ones achieve new milestones!Beluga is an AMM that now leverages Pyth data as a key pricing mechanism for its pools on Arbitrum. This eliminates the reliance on arbitrageurs to adjust the price, reducing impermanent loss for the market maker/liquidity provider.FusionX Finance, an upcoming DEX on Mantle, an Ethereum L2, has announced their upcoming Pyth integration! The network looks forward to further support FusionX and the greater Mantle ecosystem as it gears towards mainnet.Did you know that the #PeoplesNetwork officially became #PoweredByPyth? The former is Helium, a global network of Hotspots that create public, long-range wireless coverage for IoT devices and cellular devices. Recently, the Helium Network decided to migrate to Solana to improve scalability, security, and decentralization. The Helium Network integrated Pyth Solana Price Feeds to calculate everything from HNT burning for Data Credits (DC) to treasury allocations for the Mobile and IoT networksInterest Protocol is a DeFi app built on the newly launched Sui blockchain and consists of two core synergistic products: an AMM DEX and lending protocol, with the the latter being #PoweredByPyth.Synthetix, a leading derivatives platform, keeps on adding new markets for its users — all #PoweredByPyth. Last week, Synthetix introduced markets for $APT, $LDO, $ADA, $GMX, $FIL, $LTC, $BCH, $SHIB, and $CRV .Many more markets are already on their way, including $TRX, $FLOKI, $INJ, $DOT, and $XRP.zkDX is the first-ever perpetual exchange platform to launch on zkSync mainnet and is an oracle based DEX. zkDX benefits from Pyth’s on-demand data delivery, which gives it access to the freshest prices available across more than 200 assets.A Plethora of New Low-Latency Pyth Price FeedsThe Pyth Network and its data providers are hard at work to meet the growing demand for new price feeds from Pyth users. Now boasting a network of 80+ institutional and DeFi providers, the network can add a minimum of ten new price feeds a month. You may have seen your favorite project tokens becoming available on the network:$ANKR, the native utility token needed for transactions and payments for many of Ankr’s services as well as their platform governance$BAL, the core token behind the Balancer protocol, a leading AMM built on Ethereum$BLUR, the native governance token of Blur, a unique NFT marketplace and aggregator platform$LDO, the governance token of the Lido Finance DAO, the number one ETH liquid staking derivative provider$INJ, the native utility token of the Cosmos blockchain, Injective$PEPE, a deflationary meme-coin launched less than a month ago on Ethereum$SUI, the native utility token of the newly launched Move blockchain, Sui NetworkSpeed matters. Much like the launch of our ARB/USD just mere hours after its listing on major CEXs and DEXs, the Pyth data providers did their magic again and enabled #PoweredByPyth applications to access a high-fidelity SUI/USD price feed within two hours of Sui’s launch!Pyth Stats V1On May 9th, the Pyth network announced the rollout of the Pyth Stats v1. Pyth Stats are accessible to anyone and offers users insights into Pyth’s price feeds and data provider performance.Pyth Stats provide analytics on Pyth’s data providers on Pythnet, the application-specific blockchain for price aggregation. The Pyth Stats v1 track three metrics: Publisher Uptime, Price Feeds Uptime, and Exchange Comparison.💡Pyth Publisher Uptime: A publisher is counted as up if they have updated their prices on-chain within the last 10 seconds. The chart shows the percent uptime of every publisher across all price feeds they contribute data to. 38 of the Pyth Publishers have a 95-100% uptime.🔌Price Feeds Uptime: A Price Feed is counted as up if it updated within the last 10 seconds. The chart shows the percent of uptime of all Pyth Price Feeds. 168 (out of 172) live Price Feeds have a 95-100% uptime📈Exchange Comparison: This chart compares Pyth’s prices to a selected exchange and asset. Assets that are currently available for comparison: $BTC $ETH and $SOL with either Coinbase, Binance or OKX as comparison. Unlocking the Full Potential of DeFi with the Encode HackathonBuilders take note! The Solana Summer Bootcamp, brought to you by Encode Club and the Solana Foundation, will kick off soon starting May 22. The program packs a lot of action across six weeks, so you’ll want to apply fast!Attendance is totally free but capped to 50 people, so be sure to prepare a good application! All the details to apply are available here.We’re proud to support the Bootcamp alongside Wormhole and Phantom. We’ll see you soon in the classroom.https://twitter.com/PythNetwork/status/1657977828036722688We can’t wait to hear what you think! You can join the Pyth Discord and Telegram, follow us on Twitter, and be the first to hear about what’s new in the Pyth ecosystem through our newsletter. You can also learn more about Pyth here.