Pyth Launches Price Oracles on Mantle (Testnet)
We’re excited to announce that Pyth’s low-latency pull oracles are now available on Mantle testnet for their developers to become #PoweredByPyth.Mantle is a high-performance Ethereum layer-2 network built with modular architecture delivering high security at low fees. Developers on Mantle testnet can now build with Pyth’s 200+ price feeds for equities, commodities, foreign exchange pairs, ETF’s, and cryptocurrencies.The network is now supporting leaders in the Mantle DeFi community including FusionX, and Pinnako Exchange. Pyth launch on Mantle testnet is a first step towards growing the broader Mantle ecosystem and unlock once-inaccessible financial data for their developers."We are excited to partner with Pyth to bring low-latency, high-quality data to the Mantle Testnet," said Arjun Kalsy, head of ecosystem at Mantle. "This collaboration will enable developers to build dApps with access to an ever-growing pool of dynamic data, accelerating innovation in the web3 space.”MantleMantle is a high-performance Ethereum layer-2 network built with modular architecture delivering high security at low fees. Builders can leverage Mantle’s unique design to build dApps with exceptional UX, all while relying on Ethereum’s unrivaled security.Why Mantle?Hyperscale Performance: Mantle combines roll-up technology with a decentralized data availability layer, driving supercharged performance with low fees and faster finality.Unparalleled Security: Ethereum’s roll-up technology ensures that high throughput comes with unrivaled security in a familiar EVM environment for both developers and users. Additionally, as the first L2 network partner for restaking protocol EigenLayer, Mantle directly inherits security from Ethereum while offering high performance at low fees.Community Owned & Accelerated: Mantle is the world’s first DAO-led L2 network backed by BitDAO and governed by the sizeable and growing $BIT community.For more information on Mantle, please visit their website or documentation., or follow Mantle Twitter, Mantle Devs Twitter, Discord, Telegram, Youtube or Medium.PythThe Pyth Network is a first-party financial oracle network designed to provide low-latency real-world data to multiple blockchains in a secure and transparent manner.The network incentivizes some of the world’s biggest institutional market participants — exchanges, market makers, and financial services providers — to share their proprietary price data on-chain. Pyth continuously aggregates this first-party data on-chain for use by smart contract applications. Applications “pull” Pyth prices onto their native blockchain when needed thanks to Pyth’s on-demand (or “pull-based”) oracle design.In less than a year, the network secured more than $2.0B in total value. Pyth has facilitated more than $40B in total trading volume and received over 800K client downloads from passionate developers looking to use Pyth data.Pyth currently supports 250+ real-time price feeds across crypto, equities, FX, and commodities.You can learn more about Pyth from their website and documentation.What’s Next?We look forward to building the future of finance together! Check out the resources below to get started. If you have any questions, please reach out.Now that Pyth has officially joined the Mantle community, you will soon see many more tokens supported on the network as well as Mantle applications becoming #PoweredByPyth. You can find the price feeds available on our website and discover which price feeds are in the pipeline. If you would like to request a new price feed, please let us know in our Discord.ResourcesPyth WebsitePyth DocsPyth Best PracticesPyth On-Demand UpdatePythnetPyth on EVMPyth Price Feeds IDsPyth for Off-Chain UsePyth DiscordPyth TelegramWe can’t wait to hear what you think! You can join the Pyth Discord and Telegram, follow us on Twitter, and be the first to hear about what’s new in the Pyth ecosystem through our newsletter. You can also learn more about Pyth here.