Pyth Launches Price Oracles on Conflux
We’re excited to announce that Pyth Price Feeds are now available on Conflux, a blockchain mixing Proof of Work and Proof of Stake consensus enabling dApps to access speed at scale, without sacrificing decentralization. Developers on Conflux eSpace can now access Pyth’s 200+ price feeds for equities, commodities, foreign exchange pairs, and cryptocurrency! We look forward to supporting the Conflux DeFi community and helping grow the broader ecosystem by unlocking once-inaccessible financial data for builders."Pyth Network's oracle service is set to be a cornerstone for Conflux eSpace, empowering decentralized applications with the latest, safest, and most robust price and market feeds”, said Christian Oertel, Global Expansion Lead. “This innovation will be pivotal in unlocking the full potential of eSpace and enabling an unparalleled experience for DeFi within the Conflux ecosystem."ConfluxConflux is a permissionless Layer 1 blockchain connecting decentralized economies across borders and protocols. Recently migrated to hybrid PoW/PoS consensus, Conflux provides a fast, secure, and scalable blockchain environment with zero congestion, low fees, and improved network security. As the only regulatory-compliant public blockchain in China, Conflux provides a unique advantage for projects building and expanding into Asia. In the region, Conflux has collaborated with global brands and government entities on blockchain and metaverse initiatives, including the city of Shanghai, McDonald’s China, and Oreo.For more information, please visit Conflux website.PythThe Pyth network is a first-party financial oracle network designed to continuously provide real-world data on-chain in a tamper-resistant, decentralized, and self-sustainable environment.The network incentivizes market participants — exchanges, market makers, and financial services providers — to share directly on-chain the price data collected as part of their existing operations. The network continuously aggregates this first-party price data and makes it available to either on- or off-chain applications through a price service API. Users of Pyth data can then permissionlessly update the prices on-chain whenever needed.In less than a year, the network secured more than $2.0B in total value. Pyth has supported more than $40B in total trading volume, with over 800K client downloads from passionate developers looking to use Pyth data.Pyth currently supports 200+ price feeds across crypto, equities, FX, and commodities, with multiple price updates per second.More details are available on our website, whitepaper, docs, and wiki.What’s next?We look forward to building the future of finance together! Check out the resources below to get started. If you have any questions, please reach out.Now that Pyth has officially joined the Conflux community, you will soon see many more tokens supported on the network as well as Conflux applications leveraging Pyth data. You can find our price feeds on our website and discover which price feeds are in the pipeline. If you would like to request a new price feed, please let us know in our Discord.ResourcesPyth WebsitePyth DocsPyth Best PracticesPyth On-Demand UpdatePythnetPyth on EVMPyth Price Feeds IDsPyth for Off-Chain UsePyth DiscordPyth TelegramWe can’t wait to hear what you think! You can join the Pyth Discord and Telegram, follow us on Twitter, and be the first to hear about what’s new in the Pyth ecosystem through our newsletter. You can also learn more about Pyth here.