Pyth Launches Price Oracles on Meter
We’re excited to announce that Pyth Price Feeds are now available on Meter, a high-performance EVM compatible side chain for Ethereum and other public blockchains. Developers on Meter can now access Pyth’s 200+ price feeds for equities, commodities, foreign exchange pairs, and cryptocurrency! We look forward to supporting the Meter DeFi community and helping grow the broader ecosystem by unlocking once-inaccessible financial data for builders."I'm thrilled to announce our support for the Pyth Network deployment on Meter.io", said Xiaohan from Meter Labs. "With access to over 200 institutional-grade data sets covering a wide range of asset classes and markets, Pyth's unique capability to provide almost any real-time data and enable direct data consumption from users will unlock new possibilities for DeFi applications. This collaboration will significantly benefit the DeFi ecosystem, and as a blockchain that values performance and reliability, we're proud to support Pyth's mission to provide secure and reliable price feeds to DeFi applications. We're excited to see the innovative solutions they will enable on our platform."MeterMeter is a Layer 1 blockchain with freedom and fairness as the first principle. It is highly decentralized, censorship resistant yet blazing fast and MEV resistant. Its native metastable gas token completes Satoshi’s vision of a sound money independent of the fiat system.PythThe Pyth network is a first-party financial oracle network designed to continuously provide real-world data on-chain in a tamper-resistant, decentralized, and self-sustainable environment.The network incentivizes market participants — exchanges, market makers, and financial services providers — to share directly on-chain the price data collected as part of their existing operations. The network continuously aggregates this first-party price data and makes it available to either on- or off-chain applications through a price service API. Users of Pyth data can then permissionlessly update the prices on-chain whenever needed.In less than a year, the network secured more than $2.0B in total value. Pyth has supported more than $40B in total trading volume, with over 800K client downloads from passionate developers looking to use Pyth data.Pyth currently supports 200+ price feeds across crypto, equities, FX, and commodities, with multiple price updates per second.More details are available on our website, whitepaper, docs, and wiki.What’s next?We look forward to building the future of finance together! Check out the resources below to get started. If you have any questions, please reach out.Now that Pyth has officially joined the Meter community, you will soon see many more tokens supported on the network as well as Meter applications leveraging Pyth data. You can find our price feeds on our website and discover which price feeds are in the pipeline. If you would like to request a new price feed, please let us know in our Discord.ResourcesPyth WebsitePyth DocsPyth Best PracticesPyth On-Demand UpdatePythnetPyth on EVMPyth Price Feeds IDsPyth for Off-Chain UsePyth DiscordPyth TelegramWe can’t wait to hear what you think! You can join the Pyth Discord and Telegram, follow us on Twitter, and be the first to hear about what’s new in the Pyth ecosystem through our newsletter. You can also learn more about Pyth here.