Pyth Launches Price Oracles on NeonEVM Devnet
We’re excited to announce that Pyth’s low-latency pull oracles are now available on the newest iteration of the Neon EVM (devnet), the first smart contract on Solana acting as the Ethereum Virtual Machine. This deployment on Neon EVM was made possible thanks to the amazing contributors at Wormhole and the Neon Foundation.We look forward to enabling the EVM DeFi community to enjoy the benefits of Solana’s technology. Builders on Neon EVM can build on the scalability and liquidity of Solana, and starting today, tap into Pyth’s 200+ price feeds for equities, commodities, foreign exchange pairs, and cryptocurrencies!"We are joining forces with Pyth to empower builders across the Neon ecosystem with access to high-fidelity financial data. This collaboration creates a dynamic environment that supports accurate price discovery, improved risk assessment, and enhanced transparency," said Marina Guryeva, director of the Neon Foundation. "Our strategic partnership enables developers to innovate and build reliable DeFi applications, strengthening a robust and accessible decentralized financial infrastructure for all.”“Neon is bridging the divide between two leading blockchains,” said Mike Cahill, Director of the Pyth Data Association. “We, then, look forward to working with them as their first oracle integration to increase access of Pyth data to dApps while offering them a seamless user experience in the process.”Pyth on Neon EVMPyth uses an on-demand update (or pull) model that is slightly different from other oracles you may be more familiar with—including the original Pyth Price Feeds native to Solana.Most oracles today use a push model, where the oracle runs an off-chain process that continuously sends transactions to update an on-chain price. In contrast, Pyth does not operate an off-chain process that pushes prices on-chain. Instead, it delegates this work to the users who “pull” updated prices on-chain when needed.Pyth’s low-latency price feeds and its on-demand update model will benefit many DeFi use cases. DEXs can offer lower fees to users, as they are less likely to receive toxic trading flow from using a stalled oracle, while borrow-lending protocols also benefit from being able to increase the loan-to-value of certain assets. Thanks to Pyth’s permissionless nature, DEXs and money markets protocols can also support more crypto assets as well as expand its asset class support.For more details, please visit the Pyth documentation here or check out our integration playlist.Neon EVMNeon EVM is a smart contract on Solana acting as the Ethereum Virtual Machine. It is compiled into Berkeley Packet Filter bytecode, a format that can be executed on Solana. This allows Neon EVM to receive Solana transactions that contain wrapped Ethereum-like transactions and process them on Solana according to Ethereum rules.As a smart contract on Solana, Neon EVM benefits from Solana’s low gas fees (no less than 0.000015 SOL per transaction) and high throughput (+2,000 TPS). This makes it the cheapest and most efficient way anywhere to run Ethereum dApps. Neon EVM does not require any significant changes to run existing Ethereum smart contracts, with all the advantages and innovations of Solana. In addition, the Neon EVM provides access to many familiar Ethereum developer tools, including MetaMask, Remix, Hardhat and Truffle. Neon is the perfect platform for Ethereum dApps to tap into the Solana ecosystem.To learn more about Neon, visit their website.PythThe Pyth network is a first-party financial oracle network designed to provide low-latency real-world data to multiple blockchains in a secure and transparent manner.The network incentivizes some of the world’s biggest institutional market participants — exchanges, market makers, and financial services providers — to share their proprietary price data on-chain. Pyth continuously aggregates this first-party data on-chain for use by smart contract applications. Applications “pull” Pyth prices onto their native blockchain when needed thanks to Pyth’s on-demand (or “pull-based”) oracle design.In less than a year, the network secured more than $2.0B in total value. Pyth has facilitated more than $40B in total trading volume and received over 800K client downloads from passionate developers looking to use Pyth data.Pyth currently supports 200+ real-time price feeds across crypto, equities, FX, and commodities.You can learn more about Pyth from their website and documentation.What’s next?We look forward to building the future of finance together! Check out the resources below to get started. If you have any questions, please reach out.Now that Pyth has officially joined the NeonEVM community, you will soon see many more ERC and SPL tokens supported on the network as well as Neon EVM applications leveraging Pyth data. You can find our price feeds on our website and discover which price feeds are in the pipeline. If you would like to request a new price feed, please let us know in our Discord.ResourcesPyth WebsitePyth DocsPyth Best PracticesPyth On-Demand UpdatePythnetPyth on NeonPyth Price Feeds IDsPyth for Off-Chain UsePyth DiscordPyth TelegramWe can’t wait to hear what you think! You can join the Pyth Discord and Telegram, follow us on Twitter, and be the first to hear about what’s new in the Pyth ecosystem through our newsletter. You can also learn more about Pyth here.