Pyth Bounty Injective Global Hackathon  April 2023
To celebrate the launch of Pyth Price Feeds on Injective, we’re excited to announce the Pyth bounty prize for the Injective Global Hackathon!The Injective Global Virtual Hackathon is a four-week long hackathon (April 10-May 5) geared towards creating the DeFi apps of tomorrow. Supported by many other Injective partners including Jump Crypto or Wormhole, builders will benefit from technical workshops and  demonstrations as well as business guidance to launch the DeFi App of 2023 and beyond.Be sure to also join our technical Pyth integration workshop on April 19 at 6 PM UTC.Successful Injective Global Hackathon participants will be eligible for a share of $1,000,000 in prizes and seed round funding.“The Pyth network has always been a proponent to innovation within the DeFi ecosystem and it is only normal to partake in a month-long hackathon organized by a close partner: Injective. Injective is one of the most successful blockchains within the Cosmos Hub to date, which is one of the many reasons why this integration and participation are significant,” said Mike Cahill, a director of the Pyth Data Association.Injective Global Virtual Hackathon and Pyth BountyPyth has a long history of supporting aspiring developers and new protocol. In this spirit, we’re excited to partake in the Injective Global Virtual Hackathon.Hackathon builders will have the chance to compete for a $5,000 Pyth Bounty among the $1,000,000 in prizes and funding. The allocation the Pyth Bounty will be at the discretionary ofthe Pyth Data Association contributors.Please review the prerequisites below for Pyth Bounty submissions. The bounty will favor submissions that are innovative products yet to be seen on Injective that are likely to gain traction upon go-to-market. These can include borrow-lending or options protocols or more bespoke products composing with existing Injective protocols (such as trading vaults or LP’s on top of Helix markets).Furthermore, your submitted project must:Implement the Pyth on-demand model whereby the application both listens to the off-chain API endpoint and submits updated prices on-chain in the Pyth smart contract.Successfully deploy your program on Injective mainnet and kickstart the launch of your protocol.The Pyth Bounty will be issued once the Pyth Data Association contributors have judged your submission to have met the above two conditions.If you want to get a head start, you can check out our docs and integration resources below. Developers will also have the chance to learn from our dedicated Pyth integration workshop, so be sure to mark it in your calendar!For more information about the Injective Global Virtual Hackathon, you can visit their website.InjectiveInjective is a blockchain where developers can find robust out-of-the-box modules such as a completely decentralized orderbook that can be utilized to build a diverse array of sophisticated applications. Moreover, Injective operates as an open interoperable smart contracts platform.Injective is built using the Cosmos SDK and is able to attain instant transaction finality using the Tendermint proof-of-state consensus framework. In addition, Injective can facilitate fast cross-chain transactions across the largest layer one networks such as Ethereum and Cosmos Hub.The Injective ecosystem is a network of decentralized applications that focus on providing the best in class user experience. By providing the unrestricted and unprecedented ability to access decentralized financial markets, products, services and toolings, the ecosystem strives to empower individuals with the ability to more efficiently allocate capital.PythThe Pyth network is a first-party financial oracle network designed to publish continuous real-world data on-chain in a tamper-resistant, decentralized, and self-sustainable environment.The network incentivizes market participants — exchanges, market makers, and financial services providers — to share directly on-chain the price data collected as part of their existing operations. The network continuously aggregates this first-party price data and makes it available to either on- or off-chain applications through a price service API. Users of Pyth Data can then permissionlessly update the prices on-chain whenever needed.In less than a year, the network secured more than $2.0B in total value. Pyth has supported more than $40B in total trading volume, with over 800K client downloads from passionate developers looking to use Pyth data.Pyth currently supports 200+ price feeds across crypto, equities, FX, and commodities, with multiple price updates per second. Upcoming feeds include Cosmos ecosystem tokens.More details are available on our website, whitepaper, docs, and wiki.What’s Next?First and foremost, register on the Injective website. Then it is time for you to get up to speed about building on Injective and then learn how to become #PoweredByPyth.You can find the Pyth network price feeds on the website and discover which price feeds are in the pipeline. If you would like to request a new price feed or have any questions, please let us know in our Discord.Lastly, be on the lookout for the upcoming Pyth Integration Demo part of the Injective Global Hackathon — all information will be shared on the Pyth network socials.ResourcesPyth WebsitePyth DocsPyth Best PracticesPyth On-Demand UpdatePythnetPyth on CosmosPyth Price Feeds IDsPyth for Off-Chain UsePyth DiscordPyth TelegramWe can’t wait to hear what you think! You can join the Pyth Discord and Telegram, follow us on Twitter, and be the first to hear about what’s new in the Pyth ecosystem through our newsletter. You can also learn more about Pyth here.